documentation/c_getting_started/org.polarsys.rover.c.getting_started/setup_tool_chain.asciidoc, before:

== Step 2 - Setup your environment for cross development and debugging

=== Step 2.1 - Install a crossplatform toolchain
In order to setup your development environment for cross development between your laptop and the RPi, you need to install the tool chain on your laptop. Here are the different options:
 
* Mac OsX: http://www.welzels.de/blog/en/arm-cross-compiling-with-mac-os-x/[Setup
cross compilation for mac-os-x]
* Windows: TBD
* Linux: TBD

=== Step 2.2 - Copy Wiring Pi binaries on your laptop
Previously, we compiled wirinPi on the target Raspberry Pi.
Copy the content of the whole wiringPi directory  to the laptop in directory "~/PSysRover/prereq"

=== Step 2.3 - Create the IoT_Hello_Wrodl project in CDT

* Start project creation wizard
** Select Cross GCC toolchain

image:images/cdt_create_project_Iot_hello_world.png[Create IoT_Hello_World project]

* Configure Cross GCC toolchain - This configuration was done on OsX
** Cross Compiler Prefix: "arm-linux-gnueabihf-"
** Cross Compiler Path: "/usr/local/linaro/arm-linux-gnueabihf-raspbian"

image:images/cdt_create_project_cross-gcc-command.png[Cross GCC toolchain configuration]

=== Step 2.3 - Configure the CDT project
Edit the project properties, add:

//* Configure cross compiler includes
//image:images/cross_compilation_includes.png[Configure cross compiler includes]

* Configure project includes 

image:images/project_includes.png[Configure project includes]

* Configure project libraries 

image:images/project_libraries.png[Project Libraries names] 

* Configure project library path

image:images/project_library_path.png[Project Libraries Path]

=== Step 2.4 - Create the application folder on the RPi
On the Rpi, create the /home/pi/rover directory.

....
> cd ~
> mkdir rover
....

=== Step 2.5 - Back to the RPi Hello World
Sample code:

....
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <wiringPi.h>

// LED Pin - wiringPi pin 0 is BCM_GPIO 17.

#define LED 0

int main (void)
{
    printf ("Raspberry Pi blink") ;

    wiringPiSetup () ;
    pinMode (LED, OUTPUT) ;
    int i;
    for (i=0;i<10;i++)
    {
        digitalWrite (LED, HIGH) ;  // On
        delay (500) ;       // mS
        digitalWrite (LED, LOW) ;   // Off
        delay (500) ;
    }
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
....

=== Step 2.6 - Remote execution of the code

Run configuration 

image:images/run_configuration.png[Run configuration] 

Log on the Raspberry PI as root. Even if you learnt that you should never log as root, it makes it much easier as wiringPi requires root rights to manage the GPIO.

=== Step 2.7 - Remote debugging

To be completed

Commit message:

Update the documentation to setup the tool chain. Fix steps and remove unnecessary actions.

documentation/c_getting_started/org.polarsys.rover.c.getting_started/setup_tool_chain.asciidoc, after:

== Step 2 - Setup your environment for cross development and debugging

=== Step 2.1 - Install a crossplatform toolchain
In order to setup your development environment for cross development between your laptop and the RPi, you need to install the tool chain on your laptop. Here are the different options:
 
* Mac OsX: http://www.welzels.de/blog/en/arm-cross-compiling-with-mac-os-x/[Setup
cross compilation for mac-os-x]
* Windows: http://www.gurucoding.com/en/rpi_cross_compiler/index.php [Build your Windows-to-RaspberryPi cross-compiler]
* Linux: TBD

=== Step 2.2 - Copy Wiring Pi binaries on your laptop
Previously, we compiled wirinPi on the target Raspberry Pi.
Copy the content of the whole wiringPi directory  to the laptop in directory "~/PSysRover/prereq"

=== Step 2.3 - Create the IoT_Hello_World project in CDT

* Start project creation wizard
** Select Cross GCC toolchain

image:images/cdt_create_project_Iot_hello_world.png[Create IoT_Hello_World project]

* Configure Cross GCC toolchain - This configuration was done on OsX
** Cross Compiler Prefix: "arm-linux-gnueabihf-"
** Cross Compiler Path: "/usr/local/linaro/arm-linux-gnueabihf-raspbian"

image:images/cdt_create_project_cross-gcc-command.png[Cross GCC toolchain configuration]

=== Step 2.3 - Configure the CDT project
Edit the project properties, add:

//* Configure cross compiler includes
//image:images/cross_compilation_includes.png[Configure cross compiler includes]

* Configure project includes 

image:images/project_includes.png[Configure project includes]

* Configure project libraries 

image:images/project_libraries.png[Project Libraries names] 

* Configure project library path

image:images/project_library_path.png[Project Libraries Path]

=== Step 2.4 - Create the application folder on the RPi
On the Rpi, create the /home/pi/rover directory.

....
> cd ~
> mkdir rover
....

=== Step 2.5 - Back to the RPi Hello World
Sample code:

....
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <wiringPi.h>

// LED Pin - wiringPi pin 0 is BCM_GPIO 17.

#define LED 0

int main (void)
{
    printf ("Raspberry Pi blink") ;

    wiringPiSetup () ;
    pinMode (LED, OUTPUT) ;
    int i;
    for (i=0;i<10;i++)
    {
        digitalWrite (LED, HIGH) ;  // On
        delay (500) ;       // mS
        digitalWrite (LED, LOW) ;   // Off
        delay (500) ;
    }
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
....

=== Step 2.6 - Remote execution of the code

Run configuration 

image:images/run_configuration.png[Run configuration] 

Remote Host connection

image:images/remote_connection.png[Remote Connection] 

Log on the Raspberry PI as root. Even if you learnt that you should never log as root, it makes it much easier as wiringPi requires root rights to manage the GPIO.

=== Step 2.7 - Remote debugging setup
Thanks to Mikhail Kupchik for his excellent page about  http://www.gurucoding.com/en/raspberry_pi_eclipse/index.php[using Eclipse as an IDE for the Raspberry Pi]. This website is helpful when you have to find the right remote debug configurations.

Setting up the remote debugging is not immediate as you need to have a consistent gdb and gdbserver chain on both your workstation and your raspberry pi. You need to follow these steps:

. Copy the gdbserver available in your cross-compilation tool chain to your raspberry pi: 
* You can use Filezilla or scp
* If you have installed the cross-toolchain for Mac Os X, the gdbserver can be found on /usr/local/linaro/arm-linux-gnueabihf-raspbian/arm-linux-gnueabihf/debug-root/usr/bin/ 
* Copy gdbserver to the target directory is /home/pi/tools as user root so that it can be executed remotely by our launch configuration that logs as root. 
. Create your remote debug configuration:
image:images/debug_configuration.png[Debug configuration] 
. Configure local debugger path on the "Debugger tab"
image:images/debug_configuration_debug_tab.png[Configure Debug tab] 
. Setup the GdbServer Settings
image:images/debug_configuration_gdbserver_tab.png[Configure gdbserver configuration] 

=== Step 2.8 - Remote debug session
Launch your remote debug launch configuration. Eclipse CDT will switch to the Debug perspective.

Here is what a remote debugging session of this IoTHelloWorld looks like:
image:images/remote_debug_IoT_Hello_World.png[Remote Session IoT Hello World]
